FAQ for Currently Enrolled Undergraduates - Department of Computer Science, Columbia University

Have a question or concern about your program? If you can't find the answer you are looking for here, or on the Undergraduate Homepage, email CS Advising.

GENERAL ADVISING AND MAJOR DECLARATION

When can I declare CS as my major? Are there any minimum requirements that I need to meet before declaring the major? The major declaration period occurs during your sophomore year: in the fall semester for SEAS students and the spring semester for Columbia College, GS, and Barnard students. The department has no minimum requirements that you need to meet before declaring the major or minor, though we do recommend that you start taking the introductory CS courses (ENGI E1006, COMS W1004) during your freshman year.

How do I declare CS as my major? Each school has a different process for this. SEAS and CC students should discuss with their CSA Advising Dean. GS students should speak with their school advisors. Barnard students should use Slate.

Who is my CS Faculty Advisor? All CS majors and concentrators are assigned a CS Faculty Advisor. If you have general or administrative questions, please email CS Advising at ug-advising@cs.columbia.edu.

COURSE WAIVERS, IMPORTS, SUBSTITUTIONS, AND OTHER EXCEPTIONS

Can I waive a required CS course? If you already know the material in one of the required courses, either through taking another course elsewhere or through work/project experience, it may be possible to waive out of that course. Please contact the instructor of the course you wish to waive to discuss this. You can also submit course imports for review via Mice. The instructor will determine whether your prior knowledge is sufficient to satisfy that course requirement. Please note that there is no actual point value to a course waiver. When you waive out of a course, you will still need to take a replacement course to meet the minimum credit requirement for the major.

How many credits can I transfer into Columbia and count toward my CS major or Minor? For the CS Major, up to four transfer courses are accepted toward the major. Calculus, linear algebra, and probability/statistics courses can be transferred in addition to the four-course limit. For the CS-MATH Major, up to three transfer courses are accepted, with calculus courses transferable in addition to the three-course limit, subject to Math department approval. For the Minor, up to two transfer courses are accepted, with a transfer course in linear algebra or probability/statistics counting as one of the two allowed transfers. For AP credit, the department grants 3 points for a score of 4 or 5 on the AP Computer Science A exam, along with an exemption from COMS W1004. However, students are recommended to take COMS W1004 before COMS W3134/W3137 Data Structures if they received a score of 4 or have not programmed in Java recently. Barnard students do not earn credit for AP and should consult their Barnard Advisor.

Can I take electives that are outside of the CS department? You may choose your GTE (SEAS only) from outside CS, from a SEAS department, or from one of the exceptions listed on the Quick Guide, including Astronomy, Biomedical Informatics, Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Earth and Environmental Sciences, Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology, Statistics, and Economics. Courses must be at least 3 credits and at 3000 level or above.

Can I substitute any courses in the minor? No substitutions are allowed for the CS minor. No appeal for changes will be granted. The same courses may not be used to satisfy the requirements of more than one minor. No courses taken for pass/fail may be counted for a minor. The minimum GPA for the minor is 2.0.

COURSE PLANNING

Can I take Linear Algebra instead of Computational Linear Algebra? Options for the Linear Algebra requirement are COMS 3251, APMA 3101, APAM 2101, MATH 2010, or MATH 2015.

Can I count COMS 3136 Essential Data Structures for the Data Structures requirement? No. You must either take Data Structures in Java (COMS 3134) or Honors Data Structures and Algorithms (COMS 3137) for fulfilling the Data Structures requirement.

Which CS courses will be offered each semester? The department cannot guarantee more than 3 months in advance that a certain course will be offered during a specific semester, since course scheduling often depends on instructor availability.

How can I create a program plan for my major requirements? Degree progress checklists are available on the general undergraduate info page. Students can also use Stellic to plan. CS courses are in very high demand, so students may not be able to get into their top choices each semester.

Can I take a course through CVN or one of the CS department's flipped or hybrid course offerings? CVN courses are not available to undergraduate students. SEAS undergraduates are permitted to count up to 1 flipped or hybrid course per semester toward their degree. Students in CC, GS, or Barnard cannot count flipped or hybrid courses toward their degrees.

I got a D in a required course. Do I need to retake it? If you are in SEAS, GS, or CC, the department will grant a one-time-only exception to count one D toward your major requirements. If this is your second D, you will need to retake the course. Barnard does not allow a D to be counted for any major or minor, including Computer Science.

Can I take a course Pass/Fail and count it towards my major requirements? Unless there is a university-wide exception, students are not permitted to count courses taken Pass/Fail toward their major.

Is studying abroad possible for CS majors? Studying abroad is possible for CS majors but requires careful planning. Students will need to speak with the current instructors of the Columbia courses they believe are equivalent to courses they hope to take abroad to ensure equivalency, and then speak with their CS Faculty Advisor or CS Advising to ensure the course equivalencies will fulfill major requirements. Study abroad courses approved by a CS Faculty Advisor and Advising Dean are eligible to count toward the CS major if the student earns a C or higher.

Can I double count a CS major course in my minor? SEAS students can double-count a major course toward their minor. Barnard students cannot double-count, as Barnard does not allow double-counting. CC or GS students may double-count COMS W1004, any calculus courses, one Linear Algebra course, and one Probability/Statistics course with another major, minor, or concentration.

What is the difference between Data Structures and Honors Data Structures? Honors Data Structures is worth 4 points and has a mandatory recitation session in addition to lectures, typically covering a few additional topics such as data structures and algorithms in functional programming languages.

How can I get involved in research? The CS Department holds a Research Project Fair during the first week of each fall and spring semester. Students can also reach out directly to faculty members they are interested in working with to inquire about research opportunities in their lab.

How can I do a research project for credit or write a senior thesis? Students must first find a CS faculty member who will agree to serve as their research advisor, who will then provide the direct link to register for the Thesis or Research course. A maximum of 6 points of research or project credit can count toward the major.

Do I have to take ENGI 1006? What if I already know Python? Only SEAS students must take ENGI 1006. SEAS students who can demonstrate familiarity with the course content can request to waive the course, but must make up the 3 credit points by taking an extra 3000 or 4000-level CS course. Course waivers for ENGI 1006 are on an exceptional basis and are not guaranteed.

How can I find a tutor for a CS course? Email CS Advising for a list of available tutors, or ask an instructor or TA for advice on tutors.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT

How do I find out about CS jobs and internships? Career Placement Officers send opportunities, announcements, and helpful hints from career@cs.columbia.edu. Additional opportunities are also advertised through the Center for Career Education.