
A beginner’s guide to Morningside Heights eating.

After discovering the merits of Columbia’s dining halls, students must also accustom themselves to the restaurant scene within their collegiate sphere. Whether traveling down Broadway to feast on a $12 pasta special from Fumo or marching down Amsterdam Avenue to take in the smells emanating from Bánh Vietnamese Shop House or Roti Roll, Columbia students—both old and new—can enjoy the bustling food scene that surrounds campus. Compiled below are 10 restaurants that compose the beginner’s guide to Morningside Heights eating 

 After discovering the merits of Columbia’s dining halls, students must also accustom themselves to the restaurant scene within their collegiate sphere. Whether traveling down Broadway to feast on a $12 pasta special from Fumo or marching down Amsterdam Avenue to take in the smells emanating from Bánh Vietnamese Shop House or Roti Roll, Columbia students—both old and new—can enjoy the bustling food scene that surrounds campus. Compiled below are 10 restaurants that compose the beginner’s guide to Morningside Heights eating.  

In its nearly two years of operation,  www.columbiaspectator.com/arts-and-entertainment/2020/12/03/vietnamese-pop-up-restaurant-banh-vietnamese-shop-house-is-a-hit-prepares-to-open-full-time/  Bánh Vietnamese Shop House has earned its place as a go-to first date location and parent’s weekend spot for Columbia students. The eatery offers rare Vietnamese dishes, including Bánh Chưng Chiên, a crispy sticky rice dish usually served only during the Vietnamese Lunar New Year.  

The eatery serves staples in Vietnamese cooking, including a selection of bánh mì and pho, of which the barbecue pork bánh mì stands out for its juicy pork and scallion oil. Some of the entrées such as bun cha—a barbecue platter including charred pork skewers, a crispy pork and vegetable roll, and rice noodles—earn their merits from their deep savory flavors and juicy texture.  

 Students flock to resident Italian favorite Fumo for its $12 pasta lunch special, $7 Happy Hour wine, and wood-fired pizzas topped with creamy vodka sauce, wild mushrooms, and more. According to the eatery, it serves fresh, homemade food, allowing for its motto—“eat real food”—to remain true to character.  

 As many Columbia students hunt for high-quality, low-priced meals, Fumo’s long list of pasta dishes often tempts students during a weekday afternoon lull. From 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. on weekdays, students enjoy options such as penne vodka accompanied by prosciutto and shallots or rigatoni salsiccia, a dish topped with marinara, crumbled sausage, tomatoes, and spinach.  

 Formerly co-owned by the same owners of Clinton Street Baking Company &amp; Restaurant, a coveted brunch spot on the Lower East Side, Community Food &amp; Juice offers a similarly healthy menu with shorter wait times. Dishes often include seasonal, local, and organic ingredients such as local heirloom beets and wild organic salmon.  

 A Columbia student typically frequents Community Food &amp; Juice for its brunch and dinner menus that feature healthy twists on American breakfast, lunch, and dinner favorites. These include pancakes topped with bananas and walnuts, hashbrowns made of shredded potatoes and carrots, a pan-seared fish sandwich, and a grilled salmon burger. Standout menu items include pancakes accompanied by a rich maple butter and a sandwich served on a buttermilk biscuit.  

 Sushi W operates under the premise that high-quality omakase should be affordable for all. Compared to other coveted omakase-style sushi restaurants around New York City that serve a set menu between $100 and $400, Sushi W’s basic omakase provides 12 nigiri pieces and a handroll for only $48.  

 During the one-hour meal, guests sit across from the restaurant’s sushi chef, known as the itamae. After they craft each piece with warm sushi rice and fish sourced locally and globally, the chef sets it directly on the guest’s plate. It is recommended to eat each piece as it arrives on the plate for optimal temperature and freshness. Pieces notable for their rich flavor include a sea-salt-seasoned chutoro, blow-torch-seared sablefish, and sansho-pepper-topped unagi. While the sea salt brings out the savory undertones of the chutoro, the seared exterior of the sablefish provides a delightfully smoky aftertaste. The sansho pepper pleasantly numbs the tongue as diners relish the crispy yet fatty unagi.  

 A debate almost as heated as the debate over bagels, the question of which halal cart is best involves many factors, including proximity to campus, food quality, and service. The 115th Street halal cart shines in all three. Though Columbia students frequent the 115th Street halal cart for a lunchtime lamb gyro or afternoon chicken over rice, the cart that names itself “The Master of Culinary Art” greets its largest crowds after 10 p.m.  

 Whether coming home from a late night at the library or a wild night downtown, students wait in rain or shine for their Mediterranean food made with care. Late night regulars are often greeted as “friend” as they pass by the truck on their way to Shapiro Hall or while ordering their go-to midnight snack. If you visit frequently, you might be lucky enough to receive a few free fries on top of your gyro.  

 Though the Columbia bagel debate may never be settled, two sides remain clear: Wu &amp; Nussbaum and Absolute Bagels. While Absolute Bagels loyalists stand behind the cash-only eatery for its often-steaming chewy bagels, fans of Wu &amp; Nussbaum flock to the 113th Street eatery for its breakfast sandwiches packed with real eggs, fresh lox, and more. After 11:30 a.m., the restaurant serves Chinese dishes, such as xiao long bao and beef noodle soup.  

 Nussbaum presides as a premier bagel shop in Morningside Heights for its reasonable wait times, hearty bagel sandwiches, and wide assortment of bagels—its egg, everything bagel is remarkably sweet and savory at once. For those craving an order off the beaten path, the sausage egg and cheese provides the same savory flavor as a bacon egg and cheese with less fat.  

 Whether craving Roti Roll’s Bombay frankie as an affordable lunch or a late-night snack, this Indian street food––originating in Old Bombay in the 1930s according to the restaurant––is filling and chock-full of Indian spices. Variations of this Indian flatbread-based dish include a chicken makhani frankie overflowing with chicken simmered in tomato and onion and an aloo gobi muttar frankie featuring spiced potatoes, cauliflower, and green peas.  

Open well past midnight, Roti Roll contributes to Amsterdam Avenue’s lively nightlife scene as it attracts Columbia students craving something other than a larger-than-life slice from Koronet Pizza or a juicy chopped cheese from their favorite bodega. Typically, two frankies feed a hungry student and cost between $7 and $16, depending on their contents. For those who want a side to accompany their frankie, finger foods such as hot aloo fries and samosas for $5 or less will satisfy the craving.  

 The Heights beckons students to enjoy inventive cocktails including a passionfruit martini and peanut butter cup old-fashioned on its open-air rooftop dining area. Compared to other more stereotypical campus bars, such as Mel’s Burger Bar, The Heights attracts crowds who prefer a light drink with an ambient atmosphere.  

In the realm of food, the eatery’s menu offers an array of American and Mexican classics and variations. Whether diners start with Mexican street corn soup or The Heights classic wings, they should indulge in a frozen margarita, which can be flavored with mango, passion fruit, raspberry, strawberry, or peach. These frozen drinks, which are generously poured and flavored, bring Columbia students through the doors and convince them to stay for hours.

Though less well-known by the average Columbia student, Malaysia Grill serves a variety of Malaysian specialties such as sweet yet savory chicken satay or beef rendang, a beef dish slow-cooked with ground onions, coconut curry, and lemongrass. Malaysia Grill’s roti canai, a Southeast Asian flatbread dipped in a spicy curry chicken sauce, is a crowd favorite beloved for its reasonable price, flaky texture, and generous curry portion.  

Located near 104th Street and Broadway, Malaysia Grill is worth the longer walk from campus—the finish line includes bubur cha cha, a coconut-based Malaysian dessert that includes sweet potato and yam. The eatery also offers an array of Thai-style dishes, such as tom yum soup and pad thai.  

Though Uncle Luoyang food truck often sells out of items by the end of the day, its Chinese specialties, such as pan-fried pork dumplings and mapo tofu, draw lines down Broadway during lunch hour. One in a long row of food trucks that border the western side of Columbia’s campus, Uncle Luoyang is revered for its food quality and prices.  

Other food trucks near campus often come and go depending on the day of the week and influx of students, but one can often count on Uncle Luoyang’s yellow truck to await them as they walk down Broadway. If craving a shareable snack, the truck’s pan-fried pork dumplings cost $10 for 15 pieces and are delightfully crunchy and savory.  
