How Room Selection Works

Room Selection is when eligible undergraduate students declare their housing intent for the following academic year and select their room. The process takes place online in the Housing Portal. All students must declare their housing intent, whether they plan to select their own room, study abroad, take a leave, move off-campus, or are part of a pre-assigned population.

Incoming First-Year students do not participate in Room Selection and are instead assigned to one of the First-Year residence halls.

Room Selection happens in six steps.

Step 1: Declare Your Housing Intent. All eligible students are required to declare their intent for the upcoming academic year. Pre-Assigned students include students who live in Special Interest Communities or Fraternity and Sorority Life Housing, students with a registered disability accommodation, and students who are Resident Advisers. Pre-Assigned students must declare their intent to live on campus during the Pre-Assigned period to maintain their guaranteed housing, but they will not form groups and will not select a room. All remaining students must declare their intent during the General Housing Declaration period, whether they plan to move off-campus, study abroad, take a leave of absence, or live on-campus and participate in Room Selection. Students who do not declare their Housing Intent will lose guaranteed housing status and will not be eligible for future Room Selections.

Step 2: Understand Your Point Value. Students who plan to select their own room will be assigned a point value based on their class standing. The point value is used to determine their lottery number and appointment time. Students with higher point values, such as rising seniors, select earlier in the process.

Step 3: Decide How to Register, Group or Individual. Even-numbered groups offer the most flexibility during Room Selection, as they can divide among corridor style singles or doubles. All students, especially rising sophomores and juniors, are encouraged to participate as part of an even-numbered group. If you want to live in a suite or apartment-style building, you must be part of a group. Individuals have limited options as they can only select into corridor-style singles or studio and one-bedroom apartments. If these rooms are no longer available during your appointment time, you will not be able to choose a room and will be placed on the Guaranteed Assignment List.

Step 4: Explore the Residence Hall Directory and Make a Selection Plan. The Residence Hall Directory can be filtered to show options specific to you and your group. Filters can be applied individually or stacked to narrow search results. Filter by Typical Residents to see building options based on building population. Filter by Room or Suite Capacity to see building options based on your group size. Filter by Housing Style to see building options based on layout, including apartment-style, corridor-style, or suite-style. Groups should discuss which buildings meet their needs and determine how to pair up if no singles remain during their appointment time.

Step 5: Select a Room. Individual students and groups will receive one appointment time. During the appointment, individuals will select their own room while Group Leaders select rooms on behalf of all group members.

Step 6: Sign Your Occupancy Agreement. After room selections have been made, every student must sign their Occupancy Agreement. The assignment is not finalized until the student and all members of their group have signed.

Advice from peers includes the following tips. A bigger group size does not equal a good lottery number. Be honest with your group. Make a cheat sheet. Don't fear the guaranteed assignment list. Being in a group equals more options. Choose a compatible roommate. Discuss group versus individual priorities. Choosing your group leader matters. Use the Housing website. Decide how to pair up in advance.