Columbia Engineering Advising - Columbia College and Columbia Engineering

To earn the Bachelor of Science degree from The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, students must complete the First-Year Sophomore technical requirements, take at least 27 points of nontechnical coursework, satisfy specific requirements for their major, and earn 128 points total. Students must register for at least 12 credits per semester and may not register for more than 21 points per semester without approval from the Committee on Academic Standing. Students are expected to complete all requirements within 8 terms.

First-Year Sophomore Technical Requirements include: Calculus, with the specific sequence depending on initial placement level; Physics, at least 2 semesters; Chemistry, at least 1 semester depending on major; ENGI E1102 The Art of Engineering; Computer Science, with placement depending upon programming experience and major; a Professional-level course; and a Lab requirement for the selected major, which may be a Chemistry and/or Physics lab depending on major. Students are required to take Calculus, Physics, Chemistry, and the Gateway Lab during their first year at SEAS.

Nontechnical Requirements include at least 27 points of nontechnical coursework: University Writing (ENGL CC1010); the Core Humanities sequence, consisting of two semesters of Literature Humanities, Contemporary Civilization, or Global Core courses; Art Humanities or Music Humanities; Principles of Economics; and three or four elective courses totaling 9 to 11 points. Students are required to complete University Writing in their first year; most students complete the Core Humanities sequence in their second year.

Majors: Columbia Engineering students must complete the requirements for a major. Students declare their major online during the first semester of their sophomore year.

For advising support, the Berick Center for Student Advising is located at 403 Alfred Lerner Hall, 2920 Broadway, New York, NY 10027. An Advisor of the Day is available by phone or in person Monday through Friday, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.