As Columbia students, we have access to a range of support services dedicated to facilitating our learning experience. However, the whirlwind of requirements and checklists that often precede actually benefiting from these resources might make them feel out of reach.\n\nDisability Services works to coordinate accommodations and services for eligible Columbia students. But when the process of getting those services is confusing, attempting to receive access to academic accommodations can actually add to whatever challenges you’re facing. Although Disability Services provides a www.health.columbia.edu/services/register-disability-services step-by-step breakdown on how to register, Spectrum is here to help you with the process by simplifying it even further.\n\nFor students already diagnosed with a disability, the first step to registering for academic accommodations involves submitting a www.health.columbia.edu/sites/default/files/content/Docs/Registration%20Form-A.pdf registration form. Students not diagnosed with a disability should refer to www.health.columbia.edu/sites/default/files/content/Docs/Disability%20Services%20Registration%20Form%20for%20Students%20NOT%20Diagnosed%20with%20a%20Disability-A.pdf a different form. Those diagnosed with a disability must present recent documented proof of their disability status, and those without a diagnosed disability should prepare to give detailed explanations as to how the accommodations they are requesting will benefit them. It takes about three weeks for Disability Services to evaluate requests, so while the office accepts registrations throughout the year, it recommends that students begin the registration process three weeks prior to the start of classes.\n\nIf Disability Services accepts your accommodation request, you will meet with one of its coordinators to go over the policies and procedures.\n\nAfter finalizing your class schedule each semester, you have to check off a few things on your to-do list if you want to actually use the accommodation to which you now have access. During the shopping period of each semester for which you plan on using your approved academic accommodations, you must fill out the www.health.columbia.edu/content/accommodation-letter-request-form Accommodation Letter Request Form. You’ll want to complete this as soon as possible—ideally within the first two weeks of semester—but it is often easiest to wait until you know what classes you are taking for sure. This letter indicates your permission for Disability Services to share your accommodations with some, if not all, of your professors for that semester. If you add another class after submitting the form, Disability Services may request that youyou’ll need to submit the form again if you plan to use your accommodation in the new course.\n\nAfter submitting your Accommodation Letter Request Form, thoroughly look through the syllabi for each class to determine what assessments or teaching formats for which you will need your already-approved accommodations. Once you have an idea of your specific needs, submit request forms as soon as possible. For example, if you need your pre-approved note-taking accommodations for your lecture class, submit a www.health.columbia.edu/content/request-note-taking-services Request for Note-Taking Services as early in the semester as you can.\n\nStudents needing exam accommodations will need to fill out one www.health.columbia.edu/content/request-quiz-accommodation Quiz Accommodation Request Form for every quiz, as well as a www.health.columbia.edu/content/request-test-accommodation Test Accommodation Request Form for each test, midterm, or final exam that they need accommodations for. Filling out these forms involves either a one or two step procedure, depending on the class. For the classes listed www.health.columbia.edu/services/testing-accommodations here, you should fill out the student section for the quiz and testing accommodation forms and submit them to Disability Services. These classes do not require a professor’s signature. If the class does not appear on the list, you must fill out the student selection of the standard Test Accommodation Request Form, and then give it to your professor so they can fill out the instructor section. After your professor returns the form with the instructor section filled in, you can submit it to Disability Services. You can expect an email confirmation that Disability Services has scheduled your exam a few weeks or so following your submission.\n\nAt this point, we’ve almost guided you through the whole process. Now there’s just a few important things to keep in mind throughout the semester when it comes to requesting exam accommodations. Disability Services asks that you submit all test and quiz accommodation request forms at least three weeks prior to the exam date, and at least six weeks in advance for finals, which could be an added inconvenience if the dates of the exams are not clearly stated on the syllabus. Although these added deadlines may feel like a lot to remember, try not to worry too much. Disability Services will surely fill your inbox with email reminders as well.
